*Machine learning is the study of computer algorithms that improve automatically through experience.* 

A problem solvable through machine learning techniques relies on three entities
1. the **task** that er are trying to solve
2. a **performance measure** with which we will evaluate the performance of the algorithm
3. the **training experience** on which the system relies on to learn

## Design of a machine learning system
A proper design of a machine learning system follows six steps:
1. *formalize the learning task*
2. *collect data*
3. *extract features* 
4. *choose the model*
5. *train the model*
6. *evaluate the model*
#### Formalize the learning task
- this is a overall definition of the goal we are trying to achieve. this could also be composed by a chain of separate tasks
- Along the definition of the aim it is required to define an appropriate performance measure for evaluating the system 
- with this first process, we get a formal definition of the problem
- **Example**
	- recognizing handwritten characters from images
#### Collect data
- A machine learning requires data, collected in machine readable format, on which the algorithm will rely for training. 
- This is a delicate and difficult process because could imply technique requires annotation of data.
- Not every machine learning technique requires annotation of data (*semi-supervised* and *unsupervised* learning). 
#### Extract features
- The process of feature extraction consists in representing data in a way in which a computer can work with, this implies codifying data into other representative data. 
- Prior knowledge is often needed in order to extract significant features. 
- The number of features chosen has a relevant impact on the performances: too many features can require a number of training data much greater, too few could miss relevant information and decrease the performance. 
- Moreover, by taking into account too many features, there is the risk of including noisy features which can make the learning problem harder
#### Choose the class of learning models
- The choice of the model can heavily impact performance, a simple model classifier could be insufficient to complete the task while a complex model could lead to #overfitting.
	- **Overfitting** is a modeling error that occurs when a function is too closely aligned to a limited set of data points. This happens when in training we achieve top performance while with validation sets they get lower: this could mean that the training took into account also noise among the training data.
#### Train the model
- Training a model implies searching through the space of the possible models given a model class while performance of the model is measured. 
- A trained model should be able to generalize (perform well on unseen data) and avoid *overfitting* 
- Several techniques can be exploited to improve generalization.
#### Evaluate the model
 - The evaluation of the model is based on data which the algorithm has never seen before. 
 - This process identifies weaknesses and give hints on how to improve the model. 
 - Appropriate statistical test need to be carried on to verify significance of the observed results.

---
## Learning settings
### Types of learning methods
Before starting to build a model, it is necessary to choose a type of learning. Often different data or goals require different learning settings.

- **Supervised learning**
	- The learner is provided with a set of input and output pairs (labelled data)
	- (xi, yi) ∈ X × Y
	- The learned model f: X --> Y should map input samples into the proper output. A domain expert is often required in order to get labelled inputs.
- **Unsupervised learning**
	- The learner is provided with a set of input but no annotation (xi) ∈ X .
	- The learner models training example, e.g. by grouping them into clusters according to their similarity. 
	- These algorithms discover hidden patterns or data groupings without the need for human intervention.
- **Semi-Supervised learning**
	-  The learner is provided with a set of input and output pairs (labelled data) 
	- (xi, yi) ∈ X  Y and a typical much bigger set of unlabeled data (xi) ∈ X . 
	- The learned model f : X → Y should map input samples into the proper output like in supervised learning while unlabeled data can be exploited to improve performances (e.g. improve boundaries). 
- **Reinforcement learning**
	- The learner is provided with a set of possible states S and for each of them a set of possible action A is available in order to move through the next state. 
	- Performing an action a from a state s provides an immediate reward r(s, a) that can be either immediate or delayed. 
	- The goal is learning a policy that allows the algorithm to choose between states maximizing the overall reward. 
	- Often the model needs to face exploitation (performing moves that are known to be rewarding) and exploration (perform new moves) to avoid getting stuck in a local minimum.

### Types of supervised learning tasks
Before starting to build a model, it is necessary to understand the goal. This implies understand what kind of classification we are trying to get once the problem is formalized.
- **Binary classification**
	- The binary classification problem sets its goal into separate samples into two subset (often defined as positive and negative).
- **Multiclass classification**
	- The multiclass classification assigns a sample to a class chosen between n > 2 different classes.
	- f : R^d → {1, 2, . . . , n}
- **Multilabel classification**
	- The multilabel classification assigns a sample to a subset of possible classes (not a unique assignment).
	- E.g. predict the topics of a text.
- **Regression**
	- This type of problems require to assign a real value to a sample.
		- f : R^d → R 
- **Ordinal regression or ranking**
	- A ranking problem sets its goal into defining an order to samples according to their relevance/quality/importance. 

### Types of unsupervised learning tasks
Probabilistic reasoning in presence of uncertainty is fundamental. Evaluating of performances related to different variables and estimate probabilities and relation between variables is often implied.
- **Dimensionality reduction**
	- In dimensionality reduction tasks we are trying to reduce the dimension of the data maintaining as much information as possible.
- **Clustering**
	- For clustering we mean divide data into homologous groups according with some chosen similarity.
- **Novelty detection**
	- Tasks in which we are trying to detect anomalies. It consists in studying the standard behaviour of the system in order to detect novelty or unusual events.

### Types of learning algorithms
Based on the knowledge we have in the field of research, we adopt different strategies: 
- **Bayesian decision theory:** 
	- when we are certain of the probability distribution of the data
- **Parameter estimation:** 
	- when we know the probability distribution but parameters need to be adjusted 
- **Discriminative or generative methods:** 
	- when we have available training data but we do not know their distribution 
- **Unsupervised methods:** 
	- when there is lack of data and also their distribution is unknown.

### Discriminative and Generative Models
- there are two types of models:
	- *discriminative*
		- a discriminative model makes predictions on the unseen data based on conditional probability and can be used either for classification or regression problem statements (P (y|x)).
		- discriminative models are not capable of generating new data points. 
		- the ultimate objective of discriminative models is to separate one class from another (i.e. learn boundaries). Training discriminative classifiers involve estimating a function f : X → Y , or probability P (Y |X).
			- Assume some functional form for the probability such as P (Y |X).
			- With the help of training data, we estimate the parameters of P (Y |X). 
			- Examples of discriminative models are: 
				- Support Vector Machine (SVMs)
				- Traditional neural networks 
				- Nearest neighbor 
				- Decision Trees and Random Forest
	- *generative*
		- a generative model focuses on the distribution of a dataset to return a probability for a given example (P (x)). 
		- Generative models are considered as a class of statistical models that can generate new data instances. 
		- These models are mainly used in unsupervised machine learning
		- Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) are an example of generative machine learning model.
		- What is more, generative models are capable of finding the conditional probability P (Y |X), just as the discriminative counterpart.
		- They estimate the prior probability P (Y ) and likelihood probability P (X|Y ) with the help of the training data and uses the Bayes Theorem to calculate the posterior probability P (Y |X).
		- P (Y |X) = (P (Y ) * P (X | Y))/ P (X)
		- As a result, generative models can tackle a more complex task than analogous discriminative models.
	- In essence, discriminative models draw boundaries in the data space, while generative models try to model how data is placed throughout the space. 
	- A generative model focuses on explaining how the data was generated, while a discriminative model focuses on predicting the labels of the data.