*A **decision tree** encodes a logical formula expressed in **disjunctive normal form**. It consists of a disjunction of conjuctions of constraints over at- tribute values. Each path from the root to a leaf is a conjunction of the constraints specified in the nodes along it. The leaf contains the label to be assigned to instances reaching it.*

## Learning decision trees
In order to learn a decision tree, we follow a **greedy top-down** strategy inspired by a **divide et impera** approach.

For each node
1. Choose the best attribute to be evaluated
2. Add a child for each attribute value
3. Split node training set into children according to the value of the chosen attribute
4. Stop splitting a node when a stopping condition is met. 
	- For example, the node which has been reached contains examples from a single class, or there are no more attributes to test

**Remark**: 
- if the current set of examples is not homogeneous but we stop splitting for other reasons, we assign to the leaf the majority class of the set.

### Choosing the best attribute
- **Entropy**
	- The ***entropy*** is a measure of the amount of information contained in a collection of instances (training examples) S which can take a number c of possible values (class labels). The entropy of a set of labelled examples measures its label in-homogeneity.
		- H(S) = -(from i = 1 to c)Σ pi log2(pi)
		- where pi is the fraction of S taking value i
- **Information gain**
	- ***Information gain*** is the expected reduction of entropy obtained by partitioning a set S according to the value of a certain attribute A.
		- IG(S,A) = H(S) - Σ(v ∈ Values(A)) (|Sv|/|S|) H(Sv)
	- where *Values(A)* is the set of possible values taken by A and Sv is the subset of S taking value v attribute A.
		- The second term represents the sum of entropies of subsets of examples obtained partitioning over A values, weighted bu their respective sizes 
		- An attribute with high information gain tends to produce homogeneous groups in terms of labels, this favoring their classification.
	- **Remark**
		- IG(S,A) ≥ 0
- The selection of the best splitting attribute is given in terms of maximization of information gain. 
- The procedure ends when the subset of the training set which has reached a given node along the path from the root of the tree satisfies a certain criterion.

## Issues in decision tree learning 
### Overfitting avoidance
Decision trees have a structure that is determined by the data. As a result they are flexible and can easily fit the training set, with high risk of #overfitting.
Requiring that each leaf has only examples of a certain class can lead to very complex trees. A complex tree can easily overfit the training set, incorporating random regularities not representative of the full distribution.
What is more many kinds of noise can occur in the training data: some values of attributes are incorrect because of errors in the data acquisition process, the instance was labeled incorrectly, some attributes are irrelevant to the decision making process. 
In order to build simpler tree structures, less prone to overfitting, it is possible to accept impure leaves, assigning them the label of the majority of their training examples.
A technique to reduce complexity is called #pruning. There are two possible strategies to prune a decision tree:
- **pre-pruning**: 
	- decide whether to stop splitting a node even if it contains training examples with different labels. 
- **post-pruning**: 
	- learn a full tree and successively prune it removing sub- trees, replacing whole subtrees with leaf nodes.
With the aim of improving generalization and as a consequence, reducing overfitting, if a validation set is available it is possible to implement a post- pruning strategy. The procedure is described in **Algorithm**.
1. for each node n in the tree do{ 
2. -- Evaluate the performance on the validation set 
3. -- when removing the subtree rooted at n 
4. } 
5. if all node removals worsen performance{ 
6. -- STOP 
7. } 
8. n ← node whose removal has the best performance improvement 
9. 
10. Replace the subtree rooted at n with a leaf 
11. 
12. Assign to the leaf the majority label of all examples in the subtree 
13. 
14. return to line 1

### Dealing with continuous-valued attributes
Continuous valued attributes need to be discretized in order to be used in internal nodes tests. Discretization threshold can be chosen to maximize the information gain. 
1. Examples are sorted according to their continuous attribute values. 
2. For each pair of successive examples having different labels, a candidate threshold is placed as the average of the two attribute values.
3. For each candidate threshold, the information gain achieved by splitting the examples is computed.
4. The threshold producing the higher information gain is used to discretize the attribute.
### Alternative attribute test measures
The information gain criterion tends to prefer attributes with a large number of possible values. As an extreme, the unique ID of each example is an attribute which perfectly splits the data into singletons, but it will be of no use on new examples. Moreover, this would lead to #overfitting.
- In order to deal with this problem a new measure of entropy is introduced. In this case we do not compute entropy taking into account class values, but we calculate the spread with respect to the values of the attributes.
	- H_A(S) = - Σ(c ∈ Values(A)) (|Sv| / |S|) log2(|Sv|/|S|)
- This quantity is maximized when there exists an attribute which splits the dataset homogeneously in many subsets. The aim is to discourage the choice of these kind of attributes to perform the splits. To do this *gain ratio* is introduced as an alternative of information gain measure introduced above.
	- IGR(S,A) = (IG(S,A))/(H_A(S))
- In this case, splitting according to unique identifiers would result in high values of entropy with respect to attribute values (H_A(S)), which leads to low values of gain ratio (IGR(S, A)).
### Handling attributes with missing values
Assume that an example x with class c(x) has missing value for attribute A. When attribute A has to be tested at node n, the following solutions could be adopted:
- *Simple solution*. 
	- Assign to x the most common attribute value among the examples in n or (during training) the most common attribute value among the examples in n with class c(x).
- *Complex solution*
	- propagate x to each of the children of n, with a fractional value equal to the proportion of examples with the corresponding attribute value. 
	- At training time, you assign the leaf the majority vote among the training examples which reach that leaf considering their weight. 
	- At test time, if we process an example with missing attributes it ends up in multiple leaves with a given probability. 
	- Each leaf votes with a weight which depends on the fraction of the test example which reached that leaf.
## Random forest
A common technique to reduce overfitting is *ensemble learning*. Following this method we learn multiple models at training time. At test time we average the results or take the majority vote of the models. 

### Bootstrap sampling and bagging
##### Sampling
Given a set D containing N training examples, create D′ by drawing N examples at random with replacement (i.e. same example can be selected multiple times) from D
##### Bagging
1. Create k bootstrap dataset Di
2. Train distinct classifier on each Di
3. Classify new instance by majority vote/average

### Training
Random forests are ensembles of decision trees. 
Each tree is typically trained on a bootstrapped version of the training set (sampled with replacement, i.e. independent samples). 
Each decision tree is independently trained with its bootstrapped version of the training set. 
At each node the splitting function is optimized on m randomly sampled features. 
This helps obtaining decorrelated decision trees At the end of the training a forest with M trees is generated.

### Testing 
1. Test the example with each tree in the forest.
2. Return the majority class among the predictions.
More formally, given a set of trees Q = {t1, ..., tT }, the final prediction of the forest is obtained by averaging the prediction of each tree in the ensemble:
- f_Q(x) = 1/T (T)Σ(j=1)f_t(x)
