#### Group
*In abstract algebra, a #group is a set G where an operation ∗ is defined. Moreover ∗ satisfies the following properties:*
1. **associative**: (a ∗ b) ∗ c = a ∗ (b ∗ c)∀a, b, c ∈ G
2. **identity element**: ∃e ∈ G : a ∗ e = e ∗ a = a∀a ∈ G
3. **inverse element**: ∀a ∈ G ∃a′ ∈ G : a ∗ a′ = a′ ∗ a = e
#### Commutative group
*A group (G, ∗) is **commutative** iff a ∗ b = b ∗ a ∀a, b ∈ G.*
#### Vector space
*A **vector space** over the field R is an algebraic structure composed by a commutative group (V, +), whose elements are called vectors, and a function f : R × V → V called scalar multiplication which satisfies the properties listed below.
It is common to use kv, instead of f (k, v) to represent the scalar multiplication between a scalar k ∈ R and a vector v ∈ V.*
- **distributive over elements** k(v1 + v2) = kv1 + kv2
- **distributive over scalars** (k1 + k2)v = k1v + k2v
- **associative over scalars** (k1k2)v = k1(k2v)
- **identity element** 1v = v
*∀k, k1, k2 ∈ R, ∀v, v1, v2 ∈ V.*
#### Subspace
*Given a vector space V defined over the field R, a non-empty set W ⊆ V is a subspace of V if it is close w.r.t. the sum of vectors and the scalar product:*
- ∀w, w′ ∈ W, ∀k ∈ K, w + w′ ∈ W ∧ kw ∈ W
*Each subspace is in turn a vector space with respect to the operations defined in V.*
#### Linear combination
*Given a vector v ∈ V , v is a linear combination of the vectors v1, ..., vk ∈ V with coefficients ci ∈ R if:*
- v = c1v1 + ... + ckvk = (K)Σ (i=1) ci vi
#### Span
*The span of vectors v1, ..., vk is defined as the set of their linear combinations:*
- {K)Σ (i=1) ci vi, ci ∈ R} = < vi, ..., vk >
*The span is a vector subspace (also known as linear subspace) of V . In particular the span < v1, ..., vk > is the subset generated by v1, ..., vk.*
#### Linear independency and linear dependency
*A set of vectors v1, ..., vk is linearly independent if the null vector can be written as a linear combination of the elements vi of the set*
- a1v1 + a2v2 + ... + akvk = 0
if and only if all the coefficients a1, ..., ak are null. Intuitively, a set of vectors v1, ..., vk is linearly independent if none of them can be written as a linear combination of the others.
A set of vectors v1, ..., vk is linearly dependent is it is not linearly indepen- dent. As a consequence, a set of vectors v1, ..., vk is linearly dependent if there exist some not-null scalars a1, ..., ak such that:
- a1v1 + a2v2 + ... + akvk = 0
#### Basis
A set of vectors B = {v1, ..., vk} is a basis for V if any element in V can be uniquely written as a linear combination of vectors vi. A necessary condition is that vectors vi are linearly independent. All bases of V have the same number of elements, called the dimension of the vector space.
#### Linear maps
Given two vector spaces V and V ′, a function f : V → V ′ is a linear map if ∀a1, a2 ∈ R, v1, v2 ∈ V :
- f (a1v1 + a2v2) = a1f (v1) + a2f (v2)

A linear map between two finite-dimensional spaces V, V' of dimension n,m can always be written ad matrix A.
Consider a linear map T : V --> V' and two sets B = {u1, ..., un}, C = {vi, ..., vm} which are basis of V and V' respectively.
Consider also two isomorphism Tb : V --> R^n, Tc : V' --> R^m which associate to each vector its coordinates with respect to a given base. these two isomorphism uniquely identify a matrix A ∈ Mn,m(R). The n columns of A are the vectors Tc(T(uj)) obtained from the coordinates of the images T(u1), ..., T(un), with respect to basis C
For any x ∈ V we have:
- Each element x ∈ V can be written as a linear combination of the elements of the basis B.
	- f(x) = f(nΣi=1 λiui) = nΣi=1 λif (ui)

