An examiner must plan an oral exam for N students, where every student is asked one, and one only, question. 
The examiner has the following information: 
- a list of pairs of students who know each other (suppose that the relation is symmetric, but not transitive), and 
- a number, k, of questions that she can ask. 

We must determine whether the number of questions, k, is sufficient to avoid that two students knowing each other are asked the same question. 
1. Describe a polynomial-time algorithm that decides the decision problem defined above when k = 2. 
2. Prove that the problem is NP-complete in the general case (you can assume the NP-completeness of a language if it has been discussed in class).

---
1. **Describe a polynomial-time algorithm that decides the decision problem defined above when k = 2.**
	- Colorare un grafo con **due colori** senza che due vertici adiacenti abbiano lo stesso colore è possibile **se e solo se il grafo è bipartito**.
	- Colora il primo nodo con un colore (es. colore 0).
	- Visita i suoi vicini:
		- Colora ogni vicino con il colore **opposto** (1).
		- Per ogni vicino visitato, ripeti il processo:
    - Se un nodo ha già un colore e uno dei suoi vicini ha lo **stesso colore**, allora il grafo **non è bipartito** → impossibile colorare con 2 colori.
    - Se nessun conflitto viene trovato, allora il grafo è bipartito → **colorabile con 2 colori** → **è possibile assegnare le domande**.
- **Complessità**
	- Tempo: O(N+E)
	- Spazio: O(N)
1. **Prove that the problem is NP-complete in the general case (you can assume the NP-completeness of a language if it has been discussed in class).**
- Is the vertex coloring, i need to reduce 3-sat to vertex coloring
	- i need to study the retuction from 3-sat to vertex coloring 

---

## VERTEX COVER
Given an undirected graph G = (V, E) and an integer k ∈ N, is there a vertex subset V ′ ⊆ V of size (at most) k such that every edge in E has at least one endpoint in V ′ ?

**Theorem**
- VERTEX COVER is NP-complete.
**Proof**
- First of all, VERTEX COVER ∈ NP, since a cover V ′ of size k is polynomially-sized wrt the problem instance and is verifiable in polynomial time.
- Observe that if V ′ of size k is an independent set in G = (V, E), then its complement V \ V ′ is a vertex cover of size |V | − k and viceversa.

---
## VERTEX COLORING
Given an undirected graph G = (V, E) and an integer k ∈ N, is there an assignment from V to {1, . . . , k} (“k colors”) such that two connected vertices have different colors?

**Theorem**
- VERTEX COLORING is NP-complete.
**Proof**
- we need to compose a graph with gadgets (subgraphs) that capture the semantics of a 3-CNF formula (we will start from the 3-sat problem)
- The first gadget is a triangle whose nodes will be called T (“true”), F (“false”) and B (“base”).
- Among the three colors, the one that will be assigned to node T will be considered to correspond to assigning the value “true” to a node. Same for F . The three nodes are used to “force” specific values upon other nodes of the graph.
- 


---
## GRAPH ISOMORPHISM

---
già che ci siamo 
## INTEGER LINEAR PROGRAMMING (ILP)
Given a set of m linear inequalities with integer coefficients on n integer variables, is there at least a solution? In other terms, given n × m coefficients A_{ij} ∈ Z and m bounds b_i ∈ Z, does the following set of inequalities:
- A11X1 + A12X2 + ... + A1nXn =< b1
- A21X1 + A22X2 + ... + A2nXn =< b2
- ...
- ...
- Am1X1 + Am2X2 + ... + AmnXn =< bm

have a solution with x1 , . . . , xn ∈ Z?


---
## 3-SAT
Let f be a CNF formula. Suppose that f is not 3-CNF. Let clause i have li > 3 literals:

---
## K-SAT
(k-CNF). If all clauses of a CNF formula have at most k literals in them, then we say
that the formula is k-CNF (conjunctive normal form with k-literal clauses).

---
## SAT
Given a Boolean expression f (x1 , . . . , xn ) (usually in conjunctive normal form, CNF3 ) involving n variables, is there a truth assignment to the variables that satisfies (i.e., makes true) the formula4 ?