A tautology is a formula that is always true, no matter the truth assignment to its variables. A Boolean formula is in disjunctive normal form (DNF) if it is written as the disjunction of clauses, where every clause is the conjunction of literals (i,e,, like CNF but exchanging the roles of connectives). Let TAUTOLOGY be the language of DNF tautologies. Prove that TAUTOLOGY ∈ coNP. 
Hint — You can do it directly (by applying any definition of coNP), or by observing that a tautology is the negation of an unsatisfiable formula, and that the negation of a CNF leads to a DNF.

---
### Tautology
A tautology is a formula that is always true, no matter the truth assignment to its variables. 

### DNF
A Boolean formula is in disjunctive normal form (DNF) if it is written as the disjunction of clauses, where every clause is the conjunction of literals

### CNF
A Boolean formula is in **CNF** if it is written as an **AND** of **clauses**, where each **clause** is an **OR** of **literals**

---
## coNP
A language (problem) is in **coNP** if, whenever the answer is **"no"**, there exists a **proof** (certificate) that can be **verified in polynomial time**.


A decision problem (language) L belongs to the class **coNP** if and only if **its complement** !L is in **NP**.
The **coNP** class is the class of decision problems where, **if the answer is NO**, there exists a **polynomial-length certificate (proof)** that can be **verified in polynomial time**

---
##### TAUTOLOGY ∈ coNP

a coNP certificate is any truth assigment that falsifies the DNF formula, thus proving that is not a tautology

 It is easy to verify when a DNF formula is **not** a tautology: it is enough to find **one truth assignment** that makes the formula **false**. This single counterexample proves the formula is not always true, and can be verified in polynomial time.

Alternatively, we can argue that if a **CNF formula is unsatisfiable** (i.e., always false), then its **negation** is a **DNF tautology** (i.e., always true). Since **CNF-SAT** is known to be NP-complete, its complement — the **UNSAT problem** — is in **coNP**.

Therefore, checking whether a **DNF formula is a tautology** is equivalent to checking whether the corresponding **CNF is unsatisfiable**, and thus the problem TAUTOLOGY ∈ coNP.

---