Let n-SUBSET SUM be a restriction of SUBSET SUM to only instances of precisely n numbers. The problem size can still be arbitrarily large, because the numbers may be as large as we want. 
- Would 1000000-SUBSET SUM be still in NP? 
- Would it be NP-complete? 
- Would it fall back to P?


---

Clearly, the problem is still in NP because checking a restricted version is never harder than checking the unrestricted one.

- why is not NP-complete?
Qui la risposta è **no**, a meno che P=NP.
Perché?  
**NP-completo** significa: "il problema è il più difficile fra quelli in NP" e serve che:
- sia in NP 
- **qualunque** problema in NP si possa **ridurre ad esso in tempo polinomiale**
Ma in questo caso, **nnn è fisso**. Anche se molto grande (un milione), è **una costante**. Quindi:
- L'algoritmo può tranquillamente usare una **tabella di dimensione 2^n**: perché 2^n, con n costante, è ancora un **numero costante** (grande, ma non cresce con l’input).
- Quindi il problema può essere risolto in **tempo polinomiale** rispetto alla **lunghezza dei numeri**, cioè al numero di bit necessari a scriverli

---
### SUBSET SUM
Let w1 , w2 , . . . , wn ∈ N, and let s ∈ N. The problem asks if there is a subset I ⊆ {1, . . . , n} such that:
- the sum of i∈I for w_i = s.
- Or, equivalently, is there a subset of indices 1 ≤ i1 < i2 < · · · < ik ≤ n such that sum^k \_{j=1} of wij = s?
- Or, again, is there an n-bit string (b1 , b2 , . . . , bn ) ∈ {0, 1} n such that i bi wi = s?


Dato un insieme di interi (che possono essere positivi, negativi o misti) e un valore bersaglio T, il problema chiede se esista un sottoinsieme i cui elementi sommano esattamente T.



kiaro ma guardare chatty per ricordare meglio


---
# per la prossima volta

**capiamo queste cose**
- **perchè è in P**
	- **cosa lo rende in P**
- **cosa lo rende NP**
- **coda lo rende non NP-complete**



---
# Lets try again to make the exercise 
- n-SUBSET SUM --> restriction of SUBSET SUM 
	- to only instances of precisely n numbers. 
- the problem size can still be large, the number can still be large as we want
- Would 1000000-SUBSET SUM be still in NP? 
- Would it be NP-complete?
- Would it fall back to P?

oke, lets try to understand SUBSET SUM and then understand n-SUBSET SUM 

- SUBSET SUM 
	- in a set of number find a subset that give as the result a number s
- Why is NP-complete?
		- reduction from 3-CNF-SAT

---
## 3 SAT

- Given k ∈ N, k-SAT ≤p SAT.

- SAT ≤p 3-SAT.
***Proof***
- maybe in future

## 3 SAT to INDSET
**INDSET**
- graph G = (V, E)
- integer k 
- does exists a set of k node st no pair of nodes are connected between each others?  


i triangolini :)

---
## SAT
Given a Boolean expression f (x1 , . . . , xn ) (usually in conjunctive normal form, CNF3 ) involving n variables, is there a truth assignment to the variables that satisfies (i.e., makes true) the formula4?

Theorem 21 (Cook’s Theorem). SAT is NP-hard.

Proof



----
# SOOOO

- ***Would 1000000-SUBSET SUM be still in NP?*** 

Theorem 36. SUBSET SUM is NP-complete.
**Proof**
- As always, let us start by observing that SUBSET SUM ∈ NP
- In fact, the input size is n + 1 times the representation of the largest of the numbers (plus, possibly, a representation of n itself), therefore it is |x| = O(n log max{x1 , . . . , xn , s}). A suitable certificate is a list of indices 1 ≤ i1 < i2 < ... < ik ≤ n, of size O(k log n), which is linearly bounded by |x|. Checking the certificate requires k ≤ n sums of (log s)-bit numbers, which is again linearly bounded by the input size.
- n-SUBSET SUM is a restriction of the SUBSET SUM problem, because checking a restricted version is never harder than checking the unrestricted one.


- ***Would it be NP-complete?*** 

- Per essere NP-completo, un problema deve:
	1. **Appartenere a NP** ---> we got this
	2. Essere **NP-hard**, cioè **ogni problema in NP** deve poter essere ridotto a esso in tempo polinomiale.
		- We dont match this condition because it is actually polynomial. and so, iff P ≠ NP, the problem is not NP-complete


- ***Would it fall back to P?***

- Consider the naive algorithm that iterates through all 2n subsets of numbers and for each computes the corresponding sum, comparing it to s. Let l be the maximum length of the numbers’ representation. Then every som requires time O(nl) (adding at ost n l-bit numbers), therefore the complete algorithm runs within a O(2nnl) time bound (give or take some polynomial slowdown due to TM quirks). Since n is constant, the complexity becomes
	- O(2nnl) = O(1000000 · 21000000l) = O(constant · l) = O(l),
- which is clearly linear in the problem size.
