1. Prove that the following property P of Turing machines M is not recursive: 
	- P = {M : M(ε) halts after an even number of steps}
	- where ε is the empty input string.

1. Prove that P is recursively enumerable.
- *Hint — Point 2 can be proved by explicitly outlining an enumeration algorithm.*

#### Recursively enumerable
A language (or set) is **recursively enumerable** if there exists a **Turing machine** that will:
- **Accept** any string that belongs to the language (i.e., halt and say "yes"),
- But may **not halt** (i.e., loop forever) on strings **not** in the language.

# 1
The property is not semantic, therefore Rice’s Theorem cannot be invoked.

- Since we are dealing with machines running on an empty input, let us reduce the halting problem on empty input (that we called HALTε) to property P, and suppose that. 
- Clearly, P(M) ⇒ HALTε(M). 
- On the other hand, if P(M) is false, M might still be halting in an odd number of steps.
- In this case, let us add one dummy step to machine M before the halting state. 
	- Formally: HALTε(M) ⇔ P(M) ∨ P(M + dummy step before halting). 
- Otherwise, consider any machine M: 
	- if it halts, then the machine M+M (consisting of two executions of M) halts in an even number of steps: 
		- HALTε(M) ⇔ P(M + M).
# 2
 Consider a UTM that simulates a machine M and counts the number of steps. 
 - If the simulation halts, 
 - then U accepts M iff the number of steps was even. 
 This machine satisfies the definition of recursive **enumerability**. 
 - For an explicit enumeration algorithm, let us just employ the usual diagonalization method, 
 - but before writing out a halting machine we additionally check whether it halted in an even number of steps