Consider the **BOX DEPTH** decision problem: 
- let n, k ∈ N; 
- we are given n rectangles R1, . . . , Rn with sides parallel to the Cartesian axes; every rectangle Ri is therefore defined by two integer x coordinates and two integer y coordinates:
	- Ri ≡ (ximin, ximax, yimin, yimax) ∈ N4, i = 1, . . . n, ximin < ximax, yimin < yimax; 
- we are asked if there is a region of the plane where at least k rectangles overlap. 

For instance, consider the following instance with n = 5 rectangles (the coordinates of R1 are marked):
- take a look at page 136

If k ≤ 3, then the answer is “yes” (3 rectangles overlap in the region marked by “X”); if k > 3, then this instance has a negative answer.

1) Prove that BOX DEPTH ∈ NP by describing a suitable polynomial certificate for positive instances.
2) Observe that, if we mark all x coordinates that define the rectangles on the x axis and, likewise, all y coordinates on the y axis, we obtain a checkerboard like in the followin figure, based on the previous 5-rectangle example:
	- take a look at page 137
	- Here the coordinates are listed as x1 ≤ x2 ≤ · · · ≤ x2n and y1 ≤ y2 ≤ · · · ≤ y2n. Note that inside every cell \[xi, xi+1] × \[yj , yj+1] (i, j = 1, . . . , n − 1) of this checkerboard the number of overlapping rectangles doesn’t change. Therefore, to solve the decision problem we just need to take one sample point for every cell and count the number of rectangles that contain it. Show that this technique takes polynomial time, therefore BOX DEPTH ∈ P.
3) Note that there is an easy polynomial-time reduction from BOX DEPTH to CLIQUE: define a graph with a vertex for each rectangle, and join two vertices if the two corresponding rectangles overlap:
	- page 137
	- Observe that k mutually overlapping rectangles correspond to a clique of size k, and there is a common overlap region. In our case, the triangle in the graph corresponds to the mutual overlap of R1, R3 and R4. I.e., the box depth is ≥ k if and only if the graph has a clique of size ≥ k. So, BOX DEPTH, which has a polynomial-time algorithm, is reducible to CLIQUE, which is notori- ously NP-complete. Have we just proved that P = NP?

---
### 1
BOX DEPTH
- let n, k ∈ N
- we have n rectangles R1...Rn 
	- with sides parallel to the Cartesian axes;
	- Every rectangle Ri is defined by two integer x coordinates and two integer y coordinates:
		- Ri ≡ (ximin, ximax, yimin, yimax) ∈ N4, i = 1, . . . n, ximin < ximax, yimin < yimax; 
	- we are asked if there is a region of the plane where at least k rectangles overlap. 

Prove that BOX DEPTH ∈ NP by describing a suitable polynomial certificate for positive instances.

how can i solve this problem, 

the part 1 ask me to show that is NP,
- i need to find a certificate
- show that is demonstrable that is solvable in polynomial time

how can i check if two rectangle overlap
- two rectangle overlap, if their Xmin or Xmax is in between the Xmin and Xmax of another rectangle, and their Ymin or Ymax is in between the the Ymin and Ymax of the other rectange
- i need to find the greatest number of layer
- so i need to update the rectangle once find an area that overlap another one
- this method start form a rectangle and continue iterate on every n rectangle till the layer found are equal to k or end the computation 
- the time to solve this problem is O(n^n) making BOX DEPTH ∈ NP 

#### part 1 again and 2

- I need a certificate that a point of overlap exists
- that certificate can be verified in polynomial time 

- we have n axis-aligned rectangles, where each rectangle Ri = (Ximin, Ximax, Yimin, Yimax) ∈ N^4
- and a target number k ∈ N

a possible certificate is to find a point (x,y) that is shared by the area of at least k rectangle

to verify the certificate i need to
- for each rectangle check if x and y are between x y min and max
- count how many rectangle have x,y
- accept the certificate if the count is greater or equal to k

complexity
- we need to search on every rectangle 
- so its O(n), so its polynomial
so its ∈ NP and also ∈ P


--- 
### 3
lets start by understand the question

Note that there is an easy polynomial-time reduction from BOX DEPTH to CLIQUE: define a graph with a vertex for each rectangle, and join two vertices if the two corresponding rectangles overlap:
- Observe that k mutually overlapping rectangles correspond to a clique of size k, and there is a common overlap region. 
- In our case, the triangle in the graph corresponds to the mutual overlap of R1, R3 and R4. I.e., the box depth is ≥ k if and only if the graph has a clique of size ≥ k. So, BOX DEPTH, which has a polynomial-time algorithm, is reducible to CLIQUE, which is notori- ously NP-complete. Have we just proved that P = NP?


We absolutely didn't prove that P=NP, because its already one of the greatest math problem. So why that explanation does not prove that P = NP?
We know that BOX DEPTH is in P and CLIQUE is NP-complete,
- so every NP problem can be reduced to CLIQUE
we know that P is in NP, so, by definition BOX DEPTH should be reducible to CLIQUE, and we know that it is.
Reducing an **easy problem (in P)** to a **hard problem (NP-complete)** doesn’t tell us anything new.
A **reduction from A to B** means:If we can solve B efficiently, then we can solve A efficiently.
But **the reverse is not true**: If we can solve A efficiently, it tells us **nothing** about how hard B is.
so the reduction remain valid but does not prove that P = NP 