For each of the following properties: 
P1 = {M : M accepts the string “0”} 
P2 = {M : M rejects the string “0”} 
P3 = {M : L(M) is recursively enumerable} 
(where L(M) is the language recognized by M) 
40.1) Prove that the property is / isn’t trivial.
40.2) Prove that the property is / isn’t semantic. 
40.3) Prove that the property is / isn’t recursive.

Properties P1 and P2 aren’t trivial, since there are machines that accept “0” and machines that reject it. About property P3, notice that having a TM that recognizes L is the very definition of “recursively enumerable”: every language recognized by a TM is by definition RE. Therefore, P3 is trivially true for every TM.

Given two TMs M1 and M2 such that L(M1) = L(M2) = L, there are two cases: either 0 ∈ L, in which case both machines accept it, or 0̸ ∈ L, thus neither does. Therefore, P1 is semantic. On the other hand, for property P2, consider a machine M1 that rejects all strings (always halts returning 0), and a machine M2 that never halts; both recognize the same (empty) language: L(M1) = ∅ = L(M2); however, M1 ∈ P2, while M2 ∉ P2; therefore, P2 is not semantic. Finally, P3 is trivially semantic.

P1 is non-trivial and semantic; therefore, by Rice’s theorem it is non-recursive. P3 is trivially true for all machines, therefore it is computable by a TM that accepts all strings. Finally, although P2 is not semantic, we can still follow Rice’s Theorem proof to reduce the Halting problem to it (see a very similar case from Exercise 38.4).